>> Jon Kuperman: We talked
about this earlier, but
one thing to keep in mind when
we're talking about performance and
network stuff is that JavaScript
bytes do not equal image bytes.
So you can see some really cool stuff here
where you have 170KB JavaScript bundle and
170KB photo, and
they both take 3.4 seconds to download,
they're the same size.
But on the JavaScript side, we spend
2 seconds parsing and compiling it,
on the image side, we spend 0.06 seconds
decoding the images, it's almost instant.
Then when we get to execution time,
we spend 1.5 seconds executing it, whereas
the image we spend 0.02 seconds just
rasterizing it, painting it on the screen.
So yes, image savings are hugely important
that download will really take a lot of
time, but I think the big thing is to
just be cautious with your JavaScript.
This isn't an anti js talk by any means,
but JavaScript incurs costs at multiple
levels, so
that's important to remember that.
It has the download cost, then it has the
parse cost, then it has the execute cost.
Okay, so page jank, the red things
showing up on the performance.
So I just wanna cover this again,
not for necessarily memorization, but
I always think it's kind of cool.
So devices like monitors, refresh their
screens about 60 times per second.
That's like the hertz that you
can kinda control and some fancy,
like video game monitors do, like, I don't
even know, 240 or something like that.
But when you're building for office
monitors, like the things that we're going
to be using on your work laptop or
your work desktop, 60 times a second.
And so the browser needs to hand off
a frame 60 times per second to be,
now it looks like this,
now it looks like this, and
this is just happening
constantly on every web app.
And so one new picture gets to put up.
But so you basically have this
budget which is 1divided by 60,
so you get 16.6 milliseconds.
If your thread blocks are more than that,
you'll drop a frame,
that's just simply how it will work.
But unfortunately,
as application developers,
we don't get the whole 16 milliseconds,
that would be too much for us to get.
Because there's just a bunch of generic
stuff that all pages have to do,
browsers have to paint a bunch
of different stuff, so
we really get about 10
milliseconds to handle our frame.
Now, the point of this is not to start
thinking about your code in terms of how
many milliseconds it takes to run,
that is exhausting,
there's no need to do that at all.
It's more just understanding when you see
the page jank in the performance tab,
what's happening here?
What's happening here is that you probably
had a blocking operation, maybe recurring,
that was taking longer
than 10 milliseconds.
And therefore, as the monitor refreshed,
your code wasn't ready to give a new
frame yet, that's what's happening here.
And that helps you kind of think about
the types of solutions to come up with,
like chunking the workout using a web
worker, different than doing less work,
things like that.
So how many people have heard
of request animation frame?
Okay, this stuff starts getting a bit
heavy, so just jump in if I got anything.
So basically, you can think about
this experience with the browser, and
we use JavaScript to
interact with the website.
And we could think about two
main operations, we do reads and
we do writes, right?
And so here's an example, we get the
current width, so box width or whatever.
Or get element ID,
where we're like reading things.
Then we can also do writes,
we can do box style width and
we can set the width to something else,
right?
And so all of our code sort
of breaks down like this.
We're constantly reading in things,
accessing the properties,
other times we're setting properties,
and as your app gets really big,
you've got reads and
writes just all over the place, right?
And so
this is where frameworks come into play.
A lot of these modern day frameworks like
react and angular, and all these things,
they take care of this for you so
you don't have to think about it.
But when you do think about it,
every time you do a write,
it invalidates everything that you
could be reading off that thing, right?
If I say box.width, and
it's 100, great, then I say,
box.width = a + b + c, and now it's like
the browser doesn't really know what
that's gonna be until it
re computes it again.
And this is pretty similar to doing
anything in kind of computer science
where, writes often invalidate reads or
invalidate caches, right?
And so you can think if you do a lot of
JavaScript HTML manipulation yourself,
you could get into a really bad spot where
it's just hard to think about you're doing
writes and reads all over the place.
It'd be way better if you could batch
them, but who has time for that?
The frameworks do help for this,
they batch them but ultimately,
this is like a real consideration
where you can get a lot of page jank.
A lot of the performance stuff that I work
on is solved via the concept of batching,
where I will take a lot of these writes
and kind of batch them together and
put the reads together.
Now that being said,
you don't need to do all this yourself,
because we have these really cool
APIs like request animation frame.
And so request animation frame,
as you can see in this code, example,
is basically saying, okay.
The next time you're about to recalculate
anyway for your own business,
whenever that is, I have some changes I
would like to make before you do that.
And so it's kind of working with
the browser, right, where you're saying,
I wanna change the size of
a bunch of this stuff, but
I know that's gonna mess it up for
all the things reading it.
So I'm gonna hook into the browser's
animation frames, the next time you're
gonna invalidate and recompute everything,
anyway, let me in there.
Now again, we don't have to do a lot
of this stuff because if you look in
the source code of a lot of your favorite
frameworks, they do a lot of this stuff.
They take all of your
destructive operations, and
they kind of batch them in there.
But I think it's an important
concept that we know,
especially if we do raw DOM manipulation.
Or especially if we work on something
that doesn't have access to this stuff
that one of these core principles
that these frameworks do, or
that you should not necessarily
be thinking about every day.
But that can get you in trouble is that if
you do too many of these, read write, read
write, read write, you're basically never
getting this really nice fast path cache.
And you're always invalidating things and
causing the browser to repaint
them over and over again.
So using a framework will get you like,
90% of the way there.
But it is really cool to see that
we actually have the ability as
JavaScript developers to hook into
the browser system ourselves.
Going back to that like 10
milliseconds thing, be like, okay,
I know you're gonna do a new frame soon,
as soon as that new frame gets sent up and
you're ready to start recomputing,
let me know.
And I have a bunch of work
that I'd like you to do.
So anything in this callback will
all be done in a batch together and
will all be done before
it recalculates anyway.
So quite nice.
So this is a kind of performance thing,
like you can go from this seemingly
innocuous function that grabs a box and
sets its width and height, and
that does that in a set interval.
And that can be very slow, and
then you can do the exact same thing,
except you take the writes, and you put
them in a requestAnimationFrame and
that can be extremely fast.
Just as a theoretical concept.
Another thing you can do is
you can do CSS transforms.
So in a very, very, very similar way,
you could be doing these writes and
these reads.
And when you do a read or you do a write,
it throws away the cache,
the same exact thing, right?
We've got this on click
method that grabs a read and
then does a write to the same thing.
We can get away with a lot better
performance by kicking it off to a CSS
transform, by doing the box
style transform and
doing this kind of calculation
inside the transform.
Again, not needing to
memorize these things,
but just knowing that
there are tools out there.
So the tools out there are request
animation frame and CSS transforms,
CSS transforms are really great for
positional stuff, if you've got graphs,
charts, games moving around.
Request animation frame is a lot
better for chunking and batching,
just DOM rewrites.
But they're the same concept, which is
instead Instead of doing this in a way
that will invalidate and
cause this constant collision.
Working with the browser to say, hey,
when you're gonna make a change,
I've got some other work for you to do.